---
layout: post
title: MongoDB Notes (Work In Progress)
tags: [MongoDB, NoSQL]
comment: false
---

# MongoDB Notes

Unfortunately, at the time when I decided to start documenting my experimentation with MongoDB, I had already deployed a MongoDB Instance. This post assumes that you have a working MongoDB instance or you're looking to get a high level overview of the technology. 

## Context

My organization is currently experimenting with MongoDB to store records that contain information of modications made to items within our product catalog (previous value,inserted value, field, username, etc) . We've turned to MongoDB since the records will evolve as our product catalog grows.  

## Collections, Documents ?

**Collections** in simple terms are 'tables' in MongoDB. They hold collections of documents or 'rows of data'. Although you're not bounded by schema in MongoDB, you will still want to group documents with similar structure under a generic collection. 


## What is a Replica Set? High Availablity

* A "Replica Set" is a _group of MongoDB instances (3 or more) that maintain the same data set_. This is how MongoDB facilitates high availability.

* A Replica set can have multiple secondary nodes reflecting the primaries data set.

* In a Replica set of *3 mongod* instances you must have **one** primary capable of confirming writes. This results in two scenarios:
	1. The replica set will have a primary and two secondaries.
	2. The replica set will have a primary, secondary, and an "Arbiter"  

* The secondary members contain copy of the data from the primary node (replication) and cannot be written to.

* The rest of the nodes reflect the primaries data set. _The primary is the only node that can receive write operations_

* If the primary node is unavailable, an eligible secondary node will hold an election to elect itself the new primary.
 
* Replica set members send pings "heartbeats" to each other every 2 seconds. When a ping takes longer than 10 seconds an election process takes place.

* Arbiters do not maintain a data set (extra mongod instances in a replica set) and cannot become a primary

* Arbiters offer a +1 vote thus allowing an uneven # of votes; resource cost effective way to select a replica.

  
* To print out the Replica Set Configuration run the command below -
```
rs.config()
```

* To find out the running primary run the command below -
```
rs.printReplicationInfo()
```
  

* By Default clients read from the primary; however clients can specify a read preference ??????

  

## How do I interact with MongoDB?

The mongo Shell ...

  

## Can I Use .NET ?
If you're looking to access the database via .NET you can leverage the (.NET MongoDB Driver)[http://mongodb.github.io/mongo-csharp-driver/].

```
MongoDB.Driver
```